README.md, before:

###Lobsters Rails Project

This is the source code to the site operating at
[https://lobste.rs](https://lobste.rs).  It is a Rails 4 codebase and uses a
SQL (MariaDB in production) backend for the database and Sphinx for the search
engine.

While you are free to fork this code and modify it (according to the [license](https://github.com/jcs/lobsters/blob/master/LICENSE))
to run your own link aggregation website, this source code repository and bug
tracker are only for the site operating at [lobste.rs](https://lobste.rs/).
Please do not use the bug tracker for support related to operating your own
site unless you are contributing code that will also benefit [lobste.rs](https://lobste.rs/).

####Contributing bugfixes and new features

Please see the [CONTRIBUTING](https://github.com/jcs/lobsters/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)
file.

####Initial setup

* Install Ruby. Supported Ruby versions include 1.9.3, 2.0.0 and 2.1.0.

* Checkout the lobsters git tree from Github

         $ git clone git://github.com/jcs/lobsters.git
         $ cd lobsters
         lobsters$ 

* Run Bundler to install/bundle gems needed by the project:

         lobsters$ bundle

* Create a MySQL (other DBs supported by ActiveRecord may work, only MySQL and
MariaDB have been tested) database, username, and password and put them in a
`config/database.yml` file:

          development:
            adapter: mysql2
            encoding: utf8mb4
            reconnect: false
            database: lobsters_dev
            socket: /tmp/mysql.sock
            username: *username*
            password: *password*
            
          test:
            adapter: sqlite3
            database: db/test.sqlite3
            pool: 5
            timeout: 5000

* Load the schema into the new database:

          lobsters$ rake db:schema:load

* Create a `config/initializers/secret_token.rb` file, using a randomly
generated key from the output of `rake secret`:

          Lobsters::Application.config.secret_key_base = 'your random secret here'

* (Optional, only needed for the search engine) Install Sphinx.  Build Sphinx
config and start server:

          lobsters$ rake ts:rebuild

* Define your site's name and default domain, which are used in various places,
in a `config/initializers/production.rb` or similar file:

          class << Rails.application
            def domain
              "example.com"
            end
          
            def name
              "Example News"
            end
          end
          
          Rails.application.routes.default_url_options[:host] = Rails.application.domain

* Put your site's custom CSS in `app/assets/stylesheets/local`.

* Seed the database to create an initial administrator user and at least one tag:

          lobsters$ rake db:seed
          created user: test, password: test
          created tag: test

* Run the Rails server in development mode.  You should be able to login to
`http://localhost:3000` with your new `test` user:

          lobsters$ rails server

Commit message:

add docs on how to setup stream apis

README.md, after:

###Lobsters Rails Project

This is the source code to the site operating at
[https://lobste.rs](https://lobste.rs).  It is a Rails 4 codebase and uses a
SQL (MariaDB in production) backend for the database and Sphinx for the search
engine.

While you are free to fork this code and modify it (according to the [license](https://github.com/jcs/lobsters/blob/master/LICENSE))
to run your own link aggregation website, this source code repository and bug
tracker are only for the site operating at [lobste.rs](https://lobste.rs/).
Please do not use the bug tracker for support related to operating your own
site unless you are contributing code that will also benefit [lobste.rs](https://lobste.rs/).

####Contributing bugfixes and new features

Please see the [CONTRIBUTING](https://github.com/jcs/lobsters/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)
file.

####Initial setup

* Install Ruby. Supported Ruby versions include 1.9.3, 2.0.0 and 2.1.0.

* Checkout the lobsters git tree from Github

         $ git clone git://github.com/jcs/lobsters.git
         $ cd lobsters
         lobsters$ 

* Run Bundler to install/bundle gems needed by the project:

         lobsters$ bundle

* Setup API credentials for Stream.io (notification feed). Signup/Login to https://getstream.io, copy your
API_KEY and API_SECRET and paste them into `config/initializers/stream_rails.rb` or expose them as environment variables
(STREAM_API_KEY=my_api_key,STREAM_API_SECRET=my_api_secret)


* Create a MySQL (other DBs supported by ActiveRecord may work, only MySQL and
MariaDB have been tested) database, username, and password and put them in a
`config/database.yml` file:

          development:
            adapter: mysql2
            encoding: utf8mb4
            reconnect: false
            database: lobsters_dev
            socket: /tmp/mysql.sock
            username: *username*
            password: *password*
            
          test:
            adapter: sqlite3
            database: db/test.sqlite3
            pool: 5
            timeout: 5000


* Load the schema into the new database:

          lobsters$ rake db:schema:load

* Create a `config/initializers/secret_token.rb` file, using a randomly
generated key from the output of `rake secret`:

          Lobsters::Application.config.secret_key_base = 'your random secret here'

* (Optional, only needed for the search engine) Install Sphinx.  Build Sphinx
config and start server:

          lobsters$ rake ts:rebuild

* Define your site's name and default domain, which are used in various places,
in a `config/initializers/production.rb` or similar file:

          class << Rails.application
            def domain
              "example.com"
            end
          
            def name
              "Example News"
            end
          end
          
          Rails.application.routes.default_url_options[:host] = Rails.application.domain

* Put your site's custom CSS in `app/assets/stylesheets/local`.

* Seed the database to create an initial administrator user and at least one tag:

          lobsters$ rake db:seed
          created user: test, password: test
          created tag: test

* Run the Rails server in development mode.  You should be able to login to
`http://localhost:3000` with your new `test` user:

          lobsters$ rails server
